added CPUNodeDiscovery feature gate (#212)
kubevirt/user-guide: creating-virtual-machines/virtualized-hardware-configuration.adoc

        claimName: myclaim
----

Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable the cpu compatibility enforcement, user may expand the
`feature-gates` field in the kubevirt-config config map by adding the
`CPUNodeDiscovery` to it.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kubevirt-config
  namespace: kubevirt
  labels:
    kubevirt.io: ""
data:
  feature-gates: "CPUNodeDiscovery"
...
----

This feature-gate allows kubevirt to take VM cpu model and cpu features and create node selectors from them.
With these node selectors, VM can be scheduled on the node which can support VM cpu model and features.

To properly label the node, user can use (only for cpu models)

> https://github.com/ksimon1/cpu-node-labeller[cpu-node-labeller] in combination with

Reviewer: We should not link to personal repositories. What about proposing this and the following below to move to kubevirt org?

Author: @fabiand good idea

> https://github.com/ksimon1/cpu-model-nfd-plugin[cpu-model-nfd-plugin] or create node labels by himself. 

Reviewer: Same herer

Labels for features user has to create by himself.

To install cpu-node-labeller to cluster, run `oc apply -f cpu-node-labeller.yaml` with 

> https://github.com/ksimon1/cpu-node-labeller/blob/master/cpu-node-labeller.yaml[this deploy manifest]

Reviewer: Same here

It will deploy cpu-node-labeller with cpu-model-nfd-plugin. 

> cpu-model-nfd-plugin uses libvirt to get all supported cpu models on host and 

Reviewer 2: > cpu-model-nfd-plugin uses libvirt to get all supported cpu models 

what about features ?

Author: feature plugin doesn't exists yet...

cpu-node-labeller create labels from cpu models. Then Kubevirt can schedule VM 
on node which has support for VM cpu model.

> 

Reviewer 2: we probably should mention if models/features are not case sensitive

Author: models are case sensitive afaik

Reviewer 2: sorry, I ment case sensitive. (btw, we should check that this is what nfd/labeller does)

Author: labeller doesn't do anything with names which plugins reports. It just creates labels with whatever it gets (without any modifications).

Reviewer 2: so need to check how the plugin reports

Author: cpu model plugin takes models from libvirt and passes them to labeller.

You can check list of available models
https://github.com/libvirt/libvirt/blob/master/src/cpu_map/index.xml[here].

> Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement

Reviewer 2: CPUNodeDiscovery (as other features now) can be also added dynamically.  meaning you can `kubectl edit kubevirt-config`  the ConfigMap and the changes will apply  (double check me on the command syntax).

Author: but this is not article about updating config map. It is about new functionality.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> To enable the CPUNodeDiscovery, user may expand the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable the cpu compatibility enforcement, user may expand the
```

You can check list of available models
https://github.com/libvirt/libvirt/blob/master/src/cpu_map/index.xml[here].

> Enabling CPUNodeDiscovery feature-gate

Reviewer 3: The gate name is not really that important, what about calling it Cpu compatibility enforcement or something?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To enable the CPUNodeDiscovery, user may expand the
`feature-gates` field in the kubevirt-config config map by adding the
`CPUNodeDiscovery` to it.

....
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kubevirt-config
  namespace: kubevirt
  labels:
    kubevirt.io: ""
data:
  feature-gates: "CPUNodeDiscovery"
....

This feature-gate allows kubevirt to take VM cpu model and create node selector from it.
With this node selector, VM can be scheduled on the node which can support VM cpu model.
Following VM has CPU model `Conroe`:

[source,yaml]
----
metadata:
  name: myvmi
spec:
  domain:
    cpu:
      model: Conroe
...
----

When CPUNodeDiscovery feature-gate is enabled, Kubevirt creates node selector with format:
`feature.node.kubernetes.io/cpu-model-<cpuModel>`, e.g. `feature.node.kubernetes.io/cpu-model-Conroe`. 
When VM doesn't have cpu model, then no node selector is created.

> To properly label the node, user can use 

Reviewer 3: the user can also do that manually

You can check list of available models
https://github.com/libvirt/libvirt/blob/master/src/cpu_map/index.xml[here].

> When CPUNodeDiscovery feature-gate is enabled(as mentioned in link:#Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement[*Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement*]) 

Reviewer 2: the link here looks broken/malformed

data:
  default-cpu-model: "EPYC"
....
----

Default CPU model is set when vmi doesn't have any cpu model. When vmi has cpu 
model set, then vmi's cpu model is preferred. When default cpu model is not set and vmi's cpu 
model is not set too, `host-model` will be set. Default cpu model can be changed when kubevirt is running.
When CPUNodeDiscovery feature gate is enabled and nodes have labels with cpu models (as mentioned 

> in Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement article), Kubevirt creates node selector with default cpu model.

Reviewer 3: Can we make the Enabling cpu compatiblity enforcement into a hyperlink?

Full description about features and policies can be found https://libvirt.org/formatdomain.html#elementsCPU[here].

> When CPUNodeDiscovery feature-gate is enabled (as mentioned in link:#Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement[*Enabling cpu compatibility enforcement*]), 

Reviewer 2: link is broken

> Kubevirt creates node selector from cpu features with format:

Reviewer 2: Im not sure this whole section is necessary. we talk about the behaviour above (and mention the feature gate)

Author: But we don't talk there about label format.
